---
layout: post
title: rant!
---

I've loved computers since I was a kid. In a short span of a decade, the market and the community has changed significantly, and not in a pleasant way. I remember with every new hardware release, I would stay up until the NDA lifted, and I would constantly search for any pre-release information, digging through hundreds of pages on various threads. I frequented XS, but the past couple years I've noticed that it has been a lot less active...(maybe due to the registration fee? idk, but I digress)  
I believe my enthusiasm for hardware peaked after the release of Nehalem. All of these new trends, quite frankly, upset me. They don't make any sense. I understand companies have to adapt to market trends to stay alive, but it's upsetting to browse forums these days and see the focus of hardware completely shifted to petty things that were of zero relevance when I first jumped into the scene.  
I'm not saying that the past couple years have been absolutely useless. I am really glad there's a push towards better power supplies, more efficient cpus, miniaturization and unification of components, ssd controller improvements and enhanced firmware. I understand there are diminishing returns with having faster and faster hardware and it's not easy to make improvements to an already heavily optimized design. However, it feels like companies like Intel aren't even trying. Sure, they have had the ipc crown for a couple years now, but I believe they should still try to push the performance envelope even further. With AMD not being competitive with Intel at all in the high end space, there's not much incentive to release better cpus when they can continue milking people with too much money. I am sick of these pathetic cpu releases that are barely faster clock for clock per generation, bundling useless igpus. Also, what is up with only 16 pci-e lanes from the cpu? Why are there no affordable cpus with more than 4 cores? Why even both releasing a new product line if most of the parts are rebrands?  
Nehalem was the last Intel product that I bought for myself. I've made the huge mistake of selling it a couple months later in anticipation for Sandy Bridge. When it came out, it was only 10% faster clock for clock compared to my i7 960. That in itself isn't that bad, but not worth the upgrade given some of the downsides. So I decided to wait for something that would be worthwhile to upgrade. Guess what? I'm still waiting. After Sandy Bridge came Ivy Bridge, which yielded a 3% improvement clock for clock. A die shrink normally doesn't do much anyways. Then Haswell came, claiming to be a whole new architecture. Boy was I excited. It came out. 6% improvement clock for clock. What. The. Fuck. Sure the igpu has improved vastly, and I'm sure that's great news for the mobile/embedded/sff market. It's good to compete with AMD's apus. But why bundle the best igpu with the high end cpu? Low end users are the ones who would benefit the most from better graphic performance. Why are they ignoring the market of power users, workstations, servers that want more performance? They have zero need for an igpu, wasting die space(which could be used for more cores) and money. Most of them would have a discrete graphic card anyways! Don't mention that quicksync garbage. Absolutely useless when compared to x264. Most reviews online comparing them just use psnr values comparing the source to the encoded content, which isn't a great indicator of quality.  
I realize there are "enthusiast" class cpus which are free from the pci-e lane and core count limitations, but they are crippled and outdated. Intel says that their HEDT parts are synced with their server parts, which are one generation behind because Intel promised every two generations of server cpus will share the same socket. With every generation, the gap between HEDT and the performance market widens. Recent roadmaps show that by the time Haswell-e is launched, Broadwell for desktops will be launched. I'd rather cancel the next HEDT upgrade and spend the time resyncing. No one is realistically going to update each generation given the small performance increases. The first HEDT cpu launched was Sandy Bridge-e, which had no advantage in clock for clock performance compared to the non-e variant, came almost a year later, and had 2 more cores than normal. But you know what? These enthusiast parts were just crippled Xeon parts(not true with ivb-e though). Intel could've easily released an 8 core unlocked part, but no. That option isn't available at all regardless of how much money you want to throw at Intel. Leaving the best parts unoverclockable and giving shitty parts to the enthusiast market. Way to go Intel.  Multithreaded software is still rare today, but there should be at least the option of having 8 core cpus by now. My render farms and servers sure could use the power. The q6600 was the first mainstream quad core under 300, and that was released more than six years ago! Today, mainstream quad core parts are still around that price.  
With the mainstream market cpus outperforming the HEDT platform, it's no surprise why motherboard manufactures design ultra high end boards for the mainstream market rather than HEDT. While I normally wouldn't object to this, the fact that there are only 16 pci-e lanes available upsets me. Using plx bridges is a very, very stupid design. I'd rather just split the single x16 link by 4. They only make sense for multi-gpu communication. They serve no other purpose, since the bottleneck here is the cpu. What a waste of money. The added latency doesn't help either. Any "high end" motherboard these days I see I immediately skip over. With the advent of native pci-e storage, 16 simply isn't enough if you don't want to sacrifice discrete graphics performance. I'm aware of pci-e lanes from the pch, but those are of gen 2 and have extra latency. It would be nice to have a motherboard that could had a switch that would disable the pch completely so we can at least get 4 more lanes routed to a slot, rather than having it routed through the pch, especially for the HEDT platform. The HEDT platform has a crippled server pch, so it only has two sataIII ports, no native usb3, runs hot, is buggy, blah. I don't want to talk about how bad that pch is. Why does the HEDT platform even need to use the crippled server pch? The mainstream pch runs on dmi as well, I don't imagine it being very difficult to use instead. Hell, just use a bunch of high end third party controllers instead of being bound to Intel, since all those pci-e lanes in HEDT are available.  
Speaking of motherboards...The atx form factor for non HEDT motherboards is redundant. At most, it should be matx since all 7 expansion slots aren't needed. While power delivery has improved significantly throughout the years, many "gamer" motherboards have been introduced to the market, sparking various trends that have forsaken traditional logic. Things like flat heatsinks, or even worse, heatsinks with covers and "military" design are completely ineffective. I refuse to compromise on performance for something as silly as this. Functional heatsinks from 10 years ago would've been far more effective. Forum members initially rejected this design choice, but slowly people have accepted that aesthetics trump all. Now whenever I go on a forum commenting on a engineering sample motherboard, I just hear comments saying "the pcb should be black", "the heatsinks look so primitive" or other ridiculous cosmetic things. Overclocking these days is as easy as ever, so I guess providing these gimmick features is a nice way for a company to differentiate itself, but please put performance and price first! I would gladly enjoy savings from not having a specific pcb color and taking the generic color. A computer is supposed to compute things. If you want an engineering masterpiece, make something else. Buying things solely based on color scheme seems pretty primitive.
Pretty computers are a nice thing to look at, and is certainly a nice thing to have in combination of great performance. But is it worth the extra money? It certainly has hurt the modding community. Nowadays, it's just who has the most money to slap together some parts. Creativity has been diminished in the forums. Just the other day I was looking at a release of a fullcover block for the r9 290x. "It's not a fullcover. pcb is exposed" What? What? Have I gone insane? I read further. "It would be even better if it came with a backplate to hide the pcb." At this point I lost it. I couldn't read anymore. What is water cooling supposed to do? It's supposed to cool down the parts. In this case, it would be vrm, core and ram. If you wanted a goddamn "fullcover" block, just cover it with a piece of acrylic! Why waste precious resources just for aesthetics? 
